en: add docs for backup and restore aws using BR (#45)
pingcap/docs-tidb-operator: en/backup-to-aws-s3-using-br.md

    - To enable the IAM role on your EKS cluster, refer to [Amazon EKS Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/enable-iam-roles-for-service-accounts.html)

4. Create the IAM role:

    - Create a IAM role and give the `AmazonS3FullAccess` permission to the role. Modify `Trust relationships` of the role. For details, refer to [Creating an IAM Role and Policy](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/create-service-account-iam-policy-and-role.html).

5. Bind IAM to the ServiceAccount resources:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl annotate sa tidb-backup-manager -n eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn=arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/user --namespace=test1
    ```

6. Bind ServiceAccount to TiKV Pod:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl edit tc demo1 -n test1
    ```

    Modify `spec.tikv.serviceAccount` to `tidb-backup-manager`. After TiKV Pod is restarted, check whether the `serviceAccountName` of TiKV Pod has changed.

    > **Note:**
    >
    > `arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/user` is the IAM role created in Step 4.

### Process of ad-hoc full backup

> - If you grant permissions by accessKey and secretKey, create the `Backup` CR, and back up cluster data as described below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you grant permissions by importing AccessKey and SecretKey, create the `Backup` CR, and back up cluster data as described below:
```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f backup-aws-s3.yaml
    ```

>     The content of `backup-aws-s3.yaml` is as follows:

Reviewer: @ran-huang Please check with the author whether the `kubectl apply -f backup-aws-s3.yaml` command should be executed after editing the yaml file. See [comment from Lilian](https://github.com/pingcap/docs-tidb-operator/pull/1#discussion_r394180644) in another PR.

    ```yaml
    ---
    apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
    kind: Backup
    metadata:
      name: demo1-backup-s3
      namespace: test1
    spec:
      backupType: full
      br:
        cluster: demo1
        clusterNamespace: test1
        # enableTLSClient: false
        # logLevel: info
        # statusAddr: <status-addr>
        # concurrency: 4
        # rateLimit: 0
        # timeAgo: <time>
        # checksum: true
        # sendCredToTikv: true
      from:
        host: <tidb-host-ip>
        port: <tidb-port>
        user: <tidb-user>
        secretName: backup-demo1-tidb-secret
      s3:
        provider: aws
        secretName: s3-secret
        region: us-west-1
        bucket: my-bucket
        prefix: my-folder
    ```

> - If you grant permissions by binding IAM with Pod, create the `Backup` CR, and back up cluster data as described below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you grant permissions by associating IAM with Pod, create the `Backup` CR, and back up cluster data as described below:
```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f backup-aws-s3.yaml
    ```

>     The content of `backup-aws-s3.yaml` is as follows:

Reviewer: ditto, please check the sequence.

    ```yaml
    ---
    apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
    kind: Backup
    metadata:
      name: demo1-backup-s3
      namespace: test1
      annotations:
        iam.amazonaws.com/role: arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/user
    spec:
      backupType: full
      br:
        cluster: demo1
        sendCredToTikv: false
        clusterNamespace: test1
        # enableTLSClient: false
        # logLevel: info
        # statusAddr: <status-addr>
        # concurrency: 4
        # rateLimit: 0
        # timeAgo: <time>
        # checksum: true
      from:
        host: <tidb-host-ip>
        port: <tidb-port>
        user: <tidb-user>
        secretName: backup-demo1-tidb-secret
      s3:
        provider: aws
        region: us-west-1
        bucket: my-bucket
        prefix: my-folder
    ```

> - If you grant permissions by binding IAM with ServiceAccount, create the `Backup` CR, and back up cluster data as described below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you grant permissions by associating IAM with ServiceAccount, create the `Backup` CR, and back up cluster data as described below:
```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f backup-aws-s3.yaml
    ```

>     The content of `backup-aws-s3.yaml` is as follows:

Reviewer: ditto, please check the sequence.

- `bucket-owner-read`
- `bucket-owner-full-control`

If the ACL policy is not configured, the `private` policy is used by default. For the detailed description of these access control policies, refer to [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/acl-overview.html).

Amazon S3 supports the following `storageClass` types:

- `STANDARD`
- `REDUCED_REDUNDANCY`
- `STANDARD_IA`
- `ONEZONE_IA`
- `GLACIER`
- `DEEP_ARCHIVE`

If `storageClass` is not configured, `STANDARD_IA` is used by default. For the detailed description of these storage types, refer to [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/storage-class-intro.html).

After creating the `Backup` CR, use the following command to check the backup status:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

 ```shell
 kubectl get bk -n test1 -o wide
 ```

More `Backup` CR fields are described as follows:

- `.spec.metadata.namespace`: the namespace where the `Backup` CR is located.
- `.spec.from.host`: the address of the TiDB cluster to be backed up.
- `.spec.from.port`: the port of the TiDB cluster to be backed up.
- `.spec.from.user`: the accessing user of the TiDB cluster to be backed up.

> - `.spec.from.tidbSecretName`: the secret of the credential needed by the `.spec.from.user` TiDB cluster to be backed up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `.spec.from.tidbSecretName`: the secret of the user password of the `.spec.from.user` TiDB cluster.
```

More S3-compatible `provider`s are described as follows:

- `alibaba`：Alibaba Cloud Object Storage System (OSS) formerly Aliyun
- `digitalocean`：Digital Ocean Spaces
- `dreamhost`：Dreamhost DreamObjects
- `ibmcos`：IBM COS S3
- `minio`：Minio Object Storage
- `netease`：Netease Object Storage (NOS)
- `wasabi`：Wasabi Object Storage
- `other`：Any other S3 compatible provider

## Scheduled full backup

You can set a backup policy to perform scheduled backups of the TiDB cluster, and set a backup retention policy to avoid excessive backup items. A scheduled full backup is described by a custom `BackupSchedule` CR object. A full backup is triggered at each backup time point. Its underlying implementation is the ad-hoc full backup.

### Prerequisites for scheduled full backup

The prerequisites for the scheduled full backup is the same with the [prerequisites for ad-hoc full backup](#prerequisites-for-ad-hoc-full-backup).

### Process of scheduled full backup

> + If you grant permissions by accessKey and secretKey, create the `BackupSchedule` CR, and back up cluster data as described below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ If you grant permissions by importing AccessKey and SecretKey, create the `BackupSchedule` CR, and back up cluster data as described below:
```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f backup-scheduler-aws-s3.yaml
    ```

>     The content of `backup-scheduler-aws-s3.yaml` is as follows:

Reviewer: ditto, please check the sequence.

    ```yaml
    ---
    apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
    kind: BackupSchedule
    metadata:
      name: demo1-backup-schedule-s3
      namespace: test1
    spec:
      #maxBackups: 5
      #pause: true
      maxReservedTime: "3h"
      schedule: "*/2 * * * *"
      backupTemplate:
        backupType: full
        br:
          cluster: demo1
          clusterNamespace: test1
          # enableTLSClient: false
          # logLevel: info
          # statusAddr: <status-addr>
          # concurrency: 4
          # rateLimit: 0
          # timeAgo: <time>
          # checksum: true
          # sendCredToTikv: true
        from:
          host: <tidb-host-ip>
          port: <tidb-port>
          user: <tidb-user>
          secretName: backup-demo1-tidb-secret
        s3:
          provider: aws
          secretName: s3-secret
          region: us-west-1
          bucket: my-bucket
          prefix: my-folder
    ```

> + If you grant permissions by binding IAM with Pod, create the `BackupSchedule` CR, and back up cluster data as described below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ If you grant permissions by associating IAM with the Pod, create the `BackupSchedule` CR, and back up cluster data as described below:
```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f backup-scheduler-aws-s3.yaml
    ```

>     The content of `backup-scheduler-aws-s3.yaml` is as follows:

Reviewer: ditto, please check the sequence.

    ```yaml
    ---
    apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
    kind: BackupSchedule
    metadata:
      name: demo1-backup-schedule-s3
      namespace: test1
      annotations:
        iam.amazonaws.com/role: arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/user
    spec:
      #maxBackups: 5
      #pause: true
      maxReservedTime: "3h"
      schedule: "*/2 * * * *"
      backupTemplate:
        backupType: full
        br:
          cluster: demo1
          sendCredToTikv: false
          clusterNamespace: test1
          # enableTLSClient: false
          # logLevel: info
          # statusAddr: <status-addr>
          # concurrency: 4
          # rateLimit: 0
          # timeAgo: <time>
          # checksum: true
        from:
          host: <tidb-host-ip>
          port: <tidb-port>
          user: <tidb-user>
          secretName: backup-demo1-tidb-secret
        s3:
          provider: aws
          region: us-west-1
          bucket: my-bucket
          prefix: my-folder
    ```

> + If you grant permissions by binding IAM with ServiceAccount, create the `BackupSchedule` CR, and back up cluster data as described below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ If you grant permissions by associating IAM with ServiceAccount, create the `BackupSchedule` CR, and back up cluster data as described below:
```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f backup-scheduler-aws-s3.yaml
    ```

>     The content of `backup-scheduler-aws-s3.yaml` is as follows:

Reviewer: ditto, please check the sequence.

1. Download [backup-rbac.yaml](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/blob/master/manifests/backup/backup-rbac.yaml), and execute the following command to create the role-based access control (RBAC) resources in the `test1` namespace:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f backup-rbac.yaml -n test1
    ```

2. Create the `backup-demo1-tidb-secret` secret which stores the account and password needed to access the TiDB cluster:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl create secret generic backup-demo1-tidb-secret --from-literal=password=<password> --namespace=test1
    ```

3. Create the IAM role:

    - To create a IAM role for the account, refer to [Create an IAM User](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_users_create.html).
    - Give the IAM role you created the required permission. Refer to [Adding and Removing IAM Identity Permissions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_policies_manage-attach-detach.html) for details. Because `Backup` needs to access the AWS S3 storage, IAM is granted the `AmazonS3FullAccess` permission.

4. Associate IAM with TiKV Pod:

>     - In the process of backup using BR, both TiKV Pod and BR Pod need to perform read and write operations on the S3 storage. Therefore, you need to add the annotation to the TiKV Pod to associate it with the IAM role:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - In the backup process using BR, both the TiKV Pod and the BR Pod need to perform read and write operations on the S3 storage. Therefore, you need to add the annotation to the TiKV Pod to associate the Pod with the IAM role:
```

        {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

        ```shell
        kubectl edit tc demo1 -n test1
        ```

    - Find `spec.tikv.annotations`, append the `arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/user` annotation, and then exit. After TiKV Pod is restarted, check whether the annotation is added to TiKV Pod.

    > **Note:**
    >
    > `arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/user` is the IAM role created in Step 4.

#### Grant permissions by associating IAM with ServiceAccount

1. Download [backup-rbac.yaml](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/blob/master/manifests/backup/backup-rbac.yaml), and execute the following command to create the role-based access control (RBAC) resources in the `test1` namespace:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f backup-rbac.yaml -n test2
    ```

2. Create the `backup-demo1-tidb-secret` secret which stores the account and password needed to access the TiDB cluster:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl create secret generic backup-demo1-tidb-secret --from-literal=password=<password> --namespace=test1
    ```

3. Enable the IAM role for the service account on the cluster:

>     - To enable the IAM role on your EKS cluster, refer to [Amazon EKS Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/enable-iam-roles-for-service-accounts.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - To enable the IAM role on your EKS cluster, refer to [Amazon EKS Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/enable-iam-roles-for-service-accounts.html).
```

4. Create the IAM role:

>     - Create a IAM role and give the `AmazonS3FullAccess` permission to the role. Modify `Trust relationships` of the role. For details, refer to [Creating an IAM Role and Policy](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/create-service-account-iam-policy-and-role.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Create an IAM role and give the `AmazonS3FullAccess` permission to the role. Modify `Trust relationships` of the role. For details, refer to [Creating an IAM Role and Policy](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/create-service-account-iam-policy-and-role.html).
```
